;== General Registers ==

  The AX8 has 11 exposed registers for manipulation, which 4 are general data
registers, 4 are index registers. Each register can be used in a variety of
ways in a program. Index registers can be paired to create two word-wide
pseudo-registers, which one is the treated as the hardware stack pointer.

- Data Registers:
  Are byte-wide registers named: A, B, C and D. Which are used in arithmetic,
logic and data movement operations.

- Index Registers:
  Are byte-wide registers named: X, Y, L and H. Which are used for indirect
addressing and stack related operations. Can be merged to form two 16-bit
registers.

- Pointer Register (Z):
  Is a word-wide register. Created by the paired form of 'Y' as the high byte
and 'X' as the low byte. This register can be used for indirect addressing and
can use the pre-decrement and post-increment addressing modes.

- Hardware Stack Pointer (SP):
  Is a word-wide register. Created by the paired form of 'H' as the high byte
and 'Y' as the low byte. This register is used by the processor as the main
stack pointer, which is always modified by any stack related operation.

- Vector Base Register (VBR):
  Is a byte-wide register. Used to select the base register of the
relocatable exception vector table. It is readable and writable only
through 'MOV'. It is initialized to $00 at reset.

- Program Counter (PC):
  Is a word-wide register, which holds the address of the next byte to be
fetched. During sequential execution it is incremented automatically by the
processor. Can be overwritten by jump, branches and subroutine calls. It is
saved on the stack during interrupts and subroutine calls, then restored on
return. At reset it is initialized from vector table entry '1'.

- Status Register (SR):
  This is an 8-bit field containing condition flags and interrupt mask bits.
These flags reflect the outcome of arithmetic, logic and data movement
operations. Conditional branch instruction examine specific flags to determine
whether to alter program flow.

  Bit-field layout:
    7  6  4 5 3 2 1 0
    I1 I0 0 0 V C N Z

    I1 -> Interupt Mask 1. When set, IRQ1 interrupts are disabled/masked. When
          clear, IRQ1 is enabled
    I0 -> Interupt Mask 0. When set, IRQ0 interrupts are disabled/masked. When
          clear, IRQ0 is enabled
    V  -> Overflow. Set if a signed arithmetic operation produces a result
          outside the range of an 8-bit two's complement integer(-128 to +127).
          Cleared otherwise
    C  -> Carry/Borrow. Set if an addition generates a carry-out of bit 7, or
          if subtraction requires a borrow. Also affected by shift and rotate
          operations
    N  -> Negative. Set if result of an operation has bit 7 set. Cleared
          otherwise
    Z  -> Zero. Set if result of an operation is zero ($00). Cleared otherwise

---

> Documentation is licensed under CC BY-SA 4.0. <br>
> See https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/
